AnyPercentHelper/README.md, before:

# AnyPercentHelper

BL2 mod that enables various glitches and tricks to help practice Any% Gaige speedruns. Gaige in particular is hard to
practice late game due to the route including a large build up of anarchy stacks and buck up stacks. In addition, the
speedrun is done on patch 1.1, which does not support Python SDK mods, making it impossible to use useful practice tools
such as Apple's Borderlands Cheats and Mopioid's Commander, which allow for things like infinite ammo and moving around
the map instantly.

## Installation

1. Make sure the BL2 Python SDK is installed according to https://bl-sdk.github.io/
2. This mod has the following dependencies:
    1. Boderlands Commander: https://github.com/mopioid/Borderlands-Commander
    2. User Feedback: https://github.com/apple1417/bl-sdk-mods/tree/master/UserFeedback
3. Extract the AnyPercentHelper.zip file in this repo and copy the AnyPercentHelper folder to binaries/Win32/Mods in
   the game folder
4. If you plan to use the checkpoint saver, edit the "config.json" file to reflect your local save directory.
5. Launch the game, select "Mods" from the main menu, then enable Any% Helper

## Features

### Add or remove Buck Up stacks

Using in game keybinds, add or remove a "stack" of Buck Up.

### Add anarchy stacks

Adds 10 anarchy stacks, up to the maximum stack cap.

### Amp damage glitch

Multiplies amp shield bonus by the number of pellets on the card when applying the bonus to the weapon.
In effect this mimics the behavior of old game versions that applied full amp damage to every pellet.

### Weapon merging

Mimics the old weapon merging glitch that keeps various weapon bonuses the player starts swap, enters inventory, and
swaps the weapon out that they were holding. The game never removes the bonuses from the original gun when this happens.

In addition, can set a keybind to automatically merge bonuses from all weapons in the backpack. Useful for practicing
late game segments without having to manually merge weapons each time.

### Vladof free shot glitch

Allows stacking of infinite ammo using a Vladof launcher like in old versions of the game. An infinite ammo stack can be
added by firing until the free shot is next and either

1) swap away and back to the launcher quickly (and waiting for the ammo graphic to reappear), or
2) drop and pickup the launcher

In addition, can set a keybind to automatically add or remove a stack of infinite ammo. Useful for practicing
late game segments without having to manually use the launcher to add stacks.

### Jakobs shotgun auto-fire

Menu option that makes all Jakobs shotguns auto fire. This is intended to mimic the functionality of the in-game
free scroll macro created by Apple. SDK mods and that macro cannot be installed simultaneously, so I added this option
for practice. Just turn this option on and rebind fire to whatever key you plan to use for the free scroll macro.

### DLC expansions removed from Fast Travel

Only base game destination appear in Fast Travel, similar to patch 1.1. I was unable to figure out how to remove the
"Borderlands 2" header. This only matters when leaving Bloodshot Ramparts the End of the Line maps. In patch 1.1,
Sanctuary is already selected, but on current patch with this mod, you'll have to hit down arrow once to get back to
Sanctuary.

### Three Horns Divide Fast Travel

Just like in patch 1.1, this station becomes available without having to go near it to trigger. Becomes available the
first time Sanctuary is entered.

### Show current stacks/bonuses

A keybind can be set up to show 3 items:

- Number of Buck Up stacks
- Number of free shot stacks
- Current critical hit bonus
  For the free shot stacks, note that if your target is 2 for a Coach gun, you'll want to have 3 stacks while still
  holding
  the launcher, as one stack gets removed when you swap away.

### Save checkpoints and game state

A keybind can be set up to save checkpoints to allow for easy replay of the same segments. When the keybind is pressed,
the following actions occur:

- The user is asked for the name of the new file.
- A new save file is created with the current state of the game and set to read only.
- Non-savable game states of Anarchy, Buck Up, Free Shots, Crit Merges, and map position are stored locally in
  state.json
  Whenever using this save in the future, a second key bind can be used to load those game states, allowing for
  continuation
  of game play with the same number of stacks and merges applied. Useful for practicing the same late game segments.

The game states are loaded according to the hash of the save file. It will not work if the save file is changed in any
way (e.g. by disabling read only)

## Changelog

### Version 1.2

- Fixed issue where save names with letters broke the system - now correctly treats save file numbers as hexadecimal.
- Changed save behavior to keep the current save active and keep the save filename constant, only the newly created save
  increments.
- Pickup radius changed to 200 to mimic version 1.1 functionality.

### Version 1.1

- Removed DLC expansions from the FT menu
- Auto enable Three Horns Divide FT without going to station
- Added keybind to show current stats - buckup, free shots, and crit bonus
- Ability to save checkpoints complete with game state (anarchy, buck up, merged weapons, and map position)
- Games loaded from checkpoint files will load with same weapon as previously active
- Option to make Jakobs shotguns auto-fire

Commit message:

Add gear randomizer and refactor classes into separate files

AnyPercentHelper/README.md, after:

# AnyPercentHelper

BL2 mod that enables various glitches and tricks to help practice Any% Gaige speedruns. Gaige in particular is hard to
practice late game due to the route including a large build up of anarchy stacks and buck up stacks. In addition, the
speedrun is done on patch 1.1, which does not support Python SDK mods, making it impossible to use useful practice tools
such as Apple's Borderlands Cheats and Mopioid's Commander, which allow for things like infinite ammo and moving around
the map instantly.

## Installation

1. Make sure the BL2 Python SDK is installed according to https://bl-sdk.github.io/
2. This mod has the following dependencies:
    1. Boderlands Commander: https://github.com/mopioid/Borderlands-Commander
    2. User Feedback: https://github.com/apple1417/bl-sdk-mods/tree/master/UserFeedback
3. Extract the AnyPercentHelper.zip file in this repo and copy the AnyPercentHelper folder to binaries/Win32/Mods in
   the game folder
4. If you plan to use the checkpoint saver, edit the "config.json" file to reflect your local save directory.
5. Launch the game, select "Mods" from the main menu, then enable Any% Helper

## Features

### Add or remove Buck Up stacks

Using in game keybinds, add or remove a "stack" of Buck Up.

### Add anarchy stacks

Adds 10 anarchy stacks, up to the maximum stack cap.

### Amp damage glitch

Multiplies amp shield bonus by the number of pellets on the card when applying the bonus to the weapon.
In effect this mimics the behavior of old game versions that applied full amp damage to every pellet.

### Weapon merging

Mimics the old weapon merging glitch that keeps various weapon bonuses the player starts swap, enters inventory, and
swaps the weapon out that they were holding. The game never removes the bonuses from the original gun when this happens.

In addition, can set a keybind to automatically merge bonuses from all weapons in the backpack. Useful for practicing
late game segments without having to manually merge weapons each time.

### Vladof free shot glitch

Allows stacking of infinite ammo using a Vladof launcher like in old versions of the game. An infinite ammo stack can be
added by firing until the free shot is next and either

1) swap away and back to the launcher quickly (and waiting for the ammo graphic to reappear), or
2) drop and pickup the launcher

In addition, can set a keybind to automatically add or remove a stack of infinite ammo. Useful for practicing
late game segments without having to manually use the launcher to add stacks.

### Jakobs shotgun auto-fire

Menu option that makes all Jakobs shotguns auto fire. This is intended to mimic the functionality of the in-game
free scroll macro created by Apple. SDK mods and that macro cannot be installed simultaneously, so I added this option
for practice. Just turn this option on and rebind fire to whatever key you plan to use for the free scroll macro.

### DLC expansions removed from Fast Travel

Only base game destination appear in Fast Travel, similar to patch 1.1. I was unable to figure out how to remove the
"Borderlands 2" header. This only matters when leaving no U-turn maps. In patch 1.1,
Sanctuary is already selected, but on current patch with this mod, you'll have to hit down arrow once to get back to
Sanctuary.

### Three Horns Divide Fast Travel

Just like in patch 1.1, this station becomes available without having to go near it to trigger. Becomes available the
first time Sanctuary is entered.

### Show current stacks/bonuses

A keybind can be set up to show 3 items:

- Number of Buck Up stacks
- Number of free shot stacks
- Current critical hit bonus
  For the free shot stacks, note that if your target is 2 for a Coach gun, you'll want to have 3 stacks while still
  holding
  the launcher, as one stack gets removed when you swap away.

### Save checkpoints and game state

A keybind can be set up to save checkpoints to allow for easy replay of the same segments. When the keybind is pressed,
the following actions occur:

- The user is asked for the name of the new file.
- A new save file is created with the current state of the game and set to read only.
- Non-savable game states of Anarchy, Buck Up, Free Shots, Crit Merges, and map position are stored locally in
  state.json
  Whenever using this save in the future, a second key bind can be used to load those game states, allowing for
  continuation
  of game play with the same number of stacks and merges applied. Useful for practicing the same late game segments.

The game states are loaded according to the hash of the save file. It will not work if the save file is changed in any
way (e.g. by disabling read only)

### Randomize gear

A keybind can be set that randomizes your shotgun and shield based on your current story progress and the 
vendors you would have checked at that point. When the keybind is pressed, all jakobs shotguns and amp and turtle
shields are dropped in front of you, and new gear from the vendor item pools are equipped or put into your inventory.

The purpose of this is to be able to practice sections of the game with a wide variety of RNG based gear that you would
likely encounter during normal runs.

Specifically, each of the following items are rolled:
- Frostburn - always get a white Turtle shield
- Sanctuary level 8-10 - always get a Jakobs shotgun with a Jakobs, Bandit, or Torgue barrel
- Fridge level 13-14 - always get an amp shield with at least 100 damage
- Overlook level 14-16 - always get a Jakobs shotgun with a Jakobs, Bandit, or Torgue barrel
- Hyperion Bridge - one attempt to get an amp shield with at least 25 more damage than existing amp
- Wildlife - one attempt to get an amp shield with at least 25 more damage than existing amp
- Thousand Cuts - one attempt to get an amp shield with at least 25 more damage than existing amp

If at any point an amp shield with damage >= 175 is obtained, no more shield vendors are checked.

## Changelog

### Version 1.3
- Added gear randomizer keybind.

### Version 1.2

- Fixed issue where save names with letters broke the system - now correctly treats save file numbers as hexadecimal.
- Changed save behavior to keep the current save active and keep the save filename constant, only the newly created save
  increments.
- Pickup radius changed to 200 to mimic version 1.1 functionality.

### Version 1.1

- Removed DLC expansions from the FT menu
- Auto enable Three Horns Divide FT without going to station
- Added keybind to show current stats - buckup, free shots, and crit bonus
- Ability to save checkpoints complete with game state (anarchy, buck up, merged weapons, and map position)
- Games loaded from checkpoint files will load with same weapon as previously active
- Option to make Jakobs shotguns auto-fire
